how to make candied fruit for cake
decorating hi this free lesson is from
our website at www cake decorating class
info making your own candied fruit to
use as a garnish for dishes in cookies
as a snack and in cake decorating making
candied fruit is a simple process you
infuse fruits and citrus peelings in a
sugar syrup you can candy orange wedges
orange peel lemon peel grapefruit peel
pineapple and fresh cherries you can
also county fruits such as carrots for
carrot cake decorating you will need two
saucepans one for making the syrup and
another to blanch the fruit this is a
recipe for cam did orange peel simple
syrup this syrup is used for making
candied fruits adding flavor to cold
drinks and adding moisture to sponge
cake there are different strengths of
simple syrup for different uses thin
simple syrup made with one part sugar to
two parts water is used to brush on cake
layers mostly sponge cake to provide
extra moisture and sweetness medium
simple syrup is made with equal parts of
sugar and water this is excellent for
adding sweetness to mix drinks coffee
iced tea and a candy fruit a syrup made
of two parts sugar in one part water is
used as a base force orbit and making
rock candy combine equal parts of sugar
and water in a medium saucepan bring to
a boil and let the sugar dissolve you do
not need to stir the syrup but if you do
it will do no harm you can flavor the
syrup take the syrup off the heat and
cool slightly stir in 1 or 2 teaspoon of
vanilla for a basic vanilla syrup this
syrup can be kept in a little jar in the
refrigerator for up to a month remove
the bottom on top of an orange set the
flat end of the orange on the cutting
board with a sharp paring knife slice
the peel off in strips starting at the
top and slicing down
but following the curve as much as
possible don't worry about cutting off
the white pith of the peel although it
is usually bitter blanching it will make
it translucent and the syrup will
sweeten it you can candy the peel as it
is or cut into strips that are
one-fourth inch wide to using cake
decorating and garnishes you can also
dip it in chocolate and use it for a
snack large appeals like grapefruit
should be cut into strips that are even
cooking place the peel in a pot of cool
water bring water to a rolling boil
remove from heat and transfer the peel
into a colander to drain repeat the
process twice more for grapefruit or a
more tart flavored fruit you will need
to blanch them seven or eight times
cherry and pineapple do not need
blanching and can be placed directly
into the syrup between Blanc and taste
the peel if it is tender it has been
blanched enough place the peel into the
pot of syrup and bring to a low simmer
let simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until
the orange rind becomes translucent and
the peel tastes sweet and tender remove
the pot from heat and let it cool the
orange rind can be stored in its own
syrup for weeks in the refrigerator you
may choose to drain them and roll them
in sugar should it rhymes tend to dry
out quite fast whom should be eaten
within a couple of days you can dry the
peel and dip it in tempered chocolate to
make it last a bit longer you can use
the orange flavored syrup in other
drinks or dishes nothing really goes to
waste for more tips visit HTTP colon
slash slash www cake decorating class
info and take your decorating skills to
a new level
you